Now, one thing to realize is that whenever we are fetching data from somewhere, they somewhere could
be remotely in an API somewhere or even from a database.
We have to be careful of these computations of what's going on through fetching, deleting and doing
all these things, because remember, all of that is happening while the application is working while
the users are actually interacting with the application.
So it's really easy to end up polluting the UI thread, right?
Which is what's reserved by the operating system, the Android operating system to show, to show the
UI to the user.
Imagine you are creating or building an app that goes and fetch data from a database fetches a lot of
data, like thousands and thousands of rows.
Of information.
And so the user is entering data, for instance, to get to their base and then they are fetching it.
So the problem arises when perhaps the writing to a database or trying to fetch something that is taking
longer or there are some problems and that ends up blocking the UI thread.
In this case, the user interface, what ends up happening is that the operating system may then stall,
maybe stop, which means whatever the users are actually interacting with on the screen, you may end
up stopping in the operating system may end up shutting down.
So there are a lot of problems that can happen.
This takes us to a topic of quarantines and sustainable functions.
Now there is a lot written about Cortines and sustainable function and so forth, so I'm not going to
go into that into greater details.
You can't always look into that topic, but a quarantine essentially is an instance of a sustainable
computation, which means sustainable means that it can be suspended if need be and can start somewhere
else if also need to be.
So there's a synchronicity that happens in computing is part of quarantining.
It's really important.
And so Kotlin gives us that advantage to where we can create conditions, where we can launch certain
block of code that should run a synchronously or asynchronously with other processes.
And whenever there are problem or something is to change, those processes can also be suspended or
stopped or relaunched and so forth.
So that is what are we talking about when we talk about quarantines?
Obviously, there is more to the story, but that's the fact.
So because we want to make sure that these functions, right, are sustainable, right?
If something happens, if they're waiting for too long, we are able to suspend them or do things with
them, right?
Stop them and relaunch them and fetch data and not, you know, all those things safely.
That's important.
When we say safely, we're talking about a way from abstracting the user interface or the user experience,
then what do we need to do?
We're going to pass, suspend, say, suspend like this to delete, suspend to delete all passes, suspend
to function, to update that is indefinitely suspend to insert, as well as suspend for get not buy
it.
Now, the reason why we don't really need to add suspend for this kept notes is because we were talking
about the concept here of A-type type.
We're going to wrap this notes list around so that we're actually able to get this work, to get this
to work on his time.
But for now, it's OK, we'll get there.
All right.
So this is what we need to do so that these guys can actually run inside of a quarantine, which allows
us to have a synchronicity as we do things in the background.
In this case, getting data from the database and displaying it so to not to obstruct the main threat
or the user interface.